# BIND 9

BIND is a full implementation of the DNS protocol, able to serve as an
authoritative name server, recursive resolver, or forwarder, implementing
DNS Security features (DNSSEC) to sign and validate DNS responses. BIND 9
was a complete re-write of the BIND architecture used in versions 4 and 8.
Development was underwritten by the following organizations:

		Sun Microsystems, Inc.
		Hewlett Packard
		Compaq Computer Corporation
		IBM
		Process Software Corporation
		Silicon Graphics, Inc.
		Network Associates, Inc.
		U.S. Defense Information Systems Agency
		USENIX Association
		Stichting NLnet - NLnet Foundation
		Nominum, Inc.

Internet Systems Consortium, Inc.
[https://www.isc.org](https://www.isc.org) is responsible for ongoing
maintenance and development of BIND 9.

For a detailed list of changes made throughout the history of BIND 9, see
the CHANGES file.

For up-to-date release notes and errata, see
[http://www.isc.org/software/bind9/releasenotes](http://www.isc.org/software/bind9/releasenotes)

### Major features of BIND 9.12

BIND 9.12.0 includes a number of changes from BIND 9.11 and earlier
releases.  New features include:

* The query handling code has been substantially refactored for improved
  readability, maintainability and testability 
* `dnstap` output files can now be configured to roll automatically when
  reaching a given size
* Log file timestamps can now also be formatted in ISO 8601 (local) or ISO
  8601 (UTC) formats
* Logging channels and `dnstap` output files can now be configured to use a
  timestamp as the suffix when rolling to a new file
* `named-checkconf -l` lists zones found in `named.conf`
* Added support for the EDNS Padding and Keepalive options

For a summary of features introduced in prior major releases of BIND, see
the HISTORY file.

### Building

BIND requires a UNIX or Linux system with an ANSI C compiler, basic POSIX
support, and a 64-bit integer type. Successful builds have been observed on
many versions of Linux including RedHat, Fedora, Debian, Ubuntu, SuSE,
Slackware, FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD, Mac OS X, Solaris, HP-UX, AIX, SCO
OpenServer, and OpenWRT. 

BIND is also available for Windows XP, 2003, 2008, and higher. (Older
versions of Windows, including Windows NT and Windows 2000, are not
supported.) See `win32utils/readme1st.txt` for details on building for
Windows systems.

To build on a UNIX or Linux system, use:

		$ ./configure
		$ make

(NOTE: Using multiple processors in `make` is not reliable and is not
advised.)

Several environment variables that can be set before running configure will
affect compilation:

    CC
		The C compiler to use.  `configure` tries to figure
		out the right one for supported systems.

    CFLAGS
		C compiler flags.  Defaults to include -g and/or -O2
		as supported by the compiler.  Please include '-g'
		if you need to set `CFLAGS`.

    STD_CINCLUDES
		System header file directories.  Can be used to specify
		where add-on thread or IPv6 support is, for example.
		Defaults to empty string.

    STD_CDEFINES
		Any additional preprocessor symbols you want defined.
		Defaults to empty string.

		Possible settings:
		Change the default syslog facility for `named` or `lwresd`:
		  `-DISC_FACILITY=LOG_LOCAL0`

		Enable DNSSEC signature chasing support in `dig`.
                  `-DDIG_SIGCHASE=1` (sets `-DDIG_SIGCHASE_TD=1` and
                  `-DDIG_SIGCHASE_BU=1`)
		  (Note: This feature is deprecated. Use `delv` instead.)

		Disable dropping queries from particular well known ports:
		  `-DNS_CLIENT_DROPPORT=0`

		Sibling glue checking in named-checkzone is enabled by default.
		To disable the default check, set `-DCHECK_SIBLING=0`

		`named-checkzone` checks out-of-zone addresses by default.
		To disable this default, set `-DCHECK_LOCAL=0`

                To create the default pid files in `${localstatedir}/run`
                rather than `${localstatedir}/run/{named,lwresd}/`, set:
                `-DNS_RUN_PID_DIR=0`

                Enable workaround for Solaris kernel bug handling
                `/dev/poll`, use: `-DISC_SOCKET_USE_POLLWATCH=1`. The watch
                timeout is also configurable, e.g.,
                `-DISC_SOCKET_POLLWATCH_TIMEOUT=20`

    LDFLAGS
		Linker flags. Defaults to empty string.

The following environment variables need to be set when cross-compiling:

    BUILD_CC
		The native C compiler.
    BUILD_CFLAGS (optional)
    BUILD_CPPFLAGS (optional)
		Possible Settings:
		-DNEED_OPTARG=1         (optarg is not declared in <unistd.h>)
    BUILD_LDFLAGS (optional)
	    BUILD_LIBS (optional)

On most platforms, BIND 9 is built with multithreading support, allowing it
to take advantage of multiple CPUs.  You can configure this by specifying
`--enable-threads` or `--disable-threads` on the configure command line.
The default is to enable threads, except on some older operating systems on
which threads are known to have had problems in the past.  (Note: Prior to
BIND 9.10, the default was to disable threads on Linux systems; this has
now been reversed.  On Linux systems, the threaded build is known to change
BIND's behavior with respect to file permissions; it may be necessary to
specify a user with the -u option when running named.)

To build shared libraries, specify `--with-libtool` on the configure
command line.

Certain compiled-in constants and default settings can be increased to
values better suited to large servers with abundant memory resources (e.g,
64-bit servers with 12G or more of memory) by specifying
`--with-tuning=large` on the configure command line. This can improve
performance on big servers, but will consume more memory and may degrade
performance on smaller systems.

For the server to support DNSSEC, you need to build it with crypto support.
You must have OpenSSL 1.0.1t or newer installed.  If OpenSSL is installed
under a nonstandard prefix, you can tell configure where to look for it
using `--with-openssl=/prefix`.

To support the HTTP statistics channel, the server must be linked with at
least one of the following: libxml2
[http://xmlsoft.org](http://xmlsoft.org) or json-c
[https://github.com/json-c](https://github.com/json-c).  If these are
installed at a nonstandard prefix, use `--with-libxml2=/prefix` or
`--with-libjson=/prefix`.

To support compression on the HTTP statistics channel, the server must be
linked against libzlib.  If this is installed at a nonstandard prefix, use
`--with-zlib=/prefix`.

Python requires the 'argparse' and 'ply' modules to be available.
'argparse' is a standard module as of Python 2.7 and Python 3.2.

On some platforms it is necessary to explicitly request large file support
to handle files bigger than 2GB.  This can be done by using
`--enable-largefile` on the configure command line.

Support for the "fixed" rrset-order option can be enabled or disabled by
specifying `--enable-fixed-rrset` or `--disable-fixed-rrset` on the
configure command line.  By default, fixed rrset-order is disabled to
reduce memory footprint.

If your operating system has integrated support for IPv6, it will be used
automatically.  If you have installed KAME IPv6 separately, use
`--with-kame[=PATH]` to specify its location.

`make install` will install `named` and the various BIND 9 libraries.  By
default, installation is into /usr/local, but this can be changed with the
`--prefix` option when running `configure`.

You may specify the option `--sysconfdir` to set the directory where
configuration files like `named.conf` go by default, and `--localstatedir`
to set the default parent directory of `run/named.pid`.   For backwards
compatibility with BIND 8, `--sysconfdir` defaults to `/etc` and
`--localstatedir` defaults to `/var` if no `--prefix` option is given.  If
there is a `--prefix` option, sysconfdir defaults to `$prefix/etc` and
localstatedir defaults to `$prefix/var`.

To see additional configure options, run `configure --help`.  Note that the
help message does not reflect the BIND 8 compatibility defaults for
sysconfdir and localstatedir.

If you're planning on making changes to the BIND 9 source, you should also
`make depend`.  If you're using Emacs, you might find `make tags` helpful.

If you need to re-run `configure`, run `make distclean` first.  This will
ensure that all the option changes take.

Known compiler issues:

* gcc-3.2.1 and gcc-3.1.1 are known to cause problems with solaris-x86
* gcc prior to gcc-3.2.3 ultrasparc generates incorrect code at -02
* gcc-3.3.5 powerpc generates incorrect code at -02
* Irix, MipsPRO 7.4.1m is known to cause problems

A limited test suite can be run with `make test`.  Many of the tests
require you to configure a set of virtual IP addresses on your system, and
some require Perl or Python; see `bin/tests/system/README` for details.

### Known limitations

* Linux requires kernel build 2.6.39 or later to get performance benefits
  from using multiple sockets.

### Documentation

The BIND 9 Administrator Reference Manual is included with the source
distribution in DocBook XML and HTML format, in the `doc/arm` directory.

Some of the programs in the BIND 9 distribution have man pages in their
directories.  In particular, the command line options of `named` are
documented in `bin/named/named.8`.  There is now also a set of man pages
for the `lwres` library.

If you are upgrading from BIND 8, please read the migration notes in
`doc/misc/migration`.  If you are upgrading from BIND 4, read
`doc/misc/migration-4to9`.

Frequently asked questions and their answers can be found in `FAQ`.

Additional information on various subjects can be found in the other
`README` files.

### Change Log

A detailed list of all changes to BIND 9 is included in the file CHANGES,
with the most recent changes listed first.  Change notes include tags
indicating the category of the change that was made; these categories are:

[func]

:    New feature

[bug]

:    General bug fix

[security]

:    Fix for a significant security flaw

[experimental]

:    Used for new features when the syntax or other aspects of the design
are still in flux and may change

[port]

:    Portability enhancement

[maint]

:    Updates to built-in data such as root server addresses and keys

[tuning]

:    Changes to built-in configuration defaults and constants to improve
performance

[performance]

:    Other changes to improve server performance

[protocol]

:    Updates to the DNS protocol such as new RR types

[test]

:    Changes to the automatic tests, not affecting server functionality

[cleanup]

:    Minor corrections and refactoring

[doc]

:    Documentation

[contrib]

:    Changes to the contributed tools and libraries in the 'contrib'
subdirectory

[placeholder]

:    Used in the master development branch to reserve change numbers for
use in other branches, e.g. when fixing a bug that only exists in older
releases

In general, [func] and [experimental] tags will only appear in new-feature
releases (i.e., those with version numbers ending in zero).  Some new
functionality may be backported to older releases on a case-by-case basis.
All other change types may be applied to all currently-supported releases.

### Bug Reports and Mailing Lists

Bug reports should be sent to
[bind9-bugs@isc.org](mailto:bind9-bugs@isc.org)

Feature requests can be sent to
[bind-suggest@isc.org](mailto:bind-suggest@isc.org)

To join or view the archives of the __BIND Users__ mailing list, visit
[https://lists.isc.org/mailman/listinfo/bind-users](https://lists.isc.org/mailman/listinfo/bind-users)

If you're planning on making changes to the BIND 9 source code, you may
also want to join the __BIND Workers__ mailing list, at
[https://lists.isc.org/mailman/listinfo/bind-workers](https://lists.isc.org/mailman/listinfo/bind-workers)

Information on read-only Git access, coding style and developer guidelines
can be found at [http://www.isc.org/git/](http://www.isc.org/git/)

### Acknowledgments

* This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project for use
  in the OpenSSL Toolkit.
  [http://www.OpenSSL.org/](http://www.OpenSSL.org/)
* This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young
  (eay@cryptsoft.com)
* This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)
